---
dg-publish: "false"
tags:
  - notdone
---
Statics studies the *equilibrium of bodies under applied load*, and determine the structure response. In order to be in the statics fields a body needs to be at equilibrium. 
A useful model for a body is the [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Rigid body|rigid body]], that suits well the study of the equilibrium conditions. 
The movement of a rigid body can be fully characterized by its translation plus the rotation around a center of rotation. These are its [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Degrees of freedom (structure)|degrees of freedom]].
In the hypothesis of *small displacements*, we can apply the *linearization of the rigidity constrains* for a circular trajectory. It means that circular trajectories are exchanged with the tangent rectilinear ones. 
In this way, we obtain the [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Euler theorem (structure)|Euler theorem]] ??, that is useful to determinate the existence of a center of rotation, that for the [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Theory of Centers|theory of centers]] implies the absence of equilibrium.
In order to be at equilibrium, we need to saturate every degrees of freedom of the body, using a support. 
## Supports 

| Support                                                            | s   | $R_{ort}$ | $R_{axial}$ | M   | C                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------ | --- | --------- | ----------- | --- | -------------------------------- |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Hinge - Pin\|Hinge - Pin]]     | 2   | ✅         | ✅           | ❌   | itself                           |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Roller\|Roller]]               | 1   | ❌         | ✅           | ❌   | every on its axis, also infinite |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Link\|Link]]                   | 1   | ❌         | ✅           | ❌   | every on its axis, also infinite |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Slider\|Slider]]               | 2   | ❌         | ✅           | ✅   | infinite on its axis             |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Double slider\|Double slider]] | 1   | ❌         | ❌           | ✅   | infinite on every axis           |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Fixed support\|Fixed support]] | 3   | ✅         | ✅           | ✅   | ❌                                |
where:
- s are the saturated degrees of freedom
- $R_{ort}$ is the translational reaction orthogonal component
- $R_{axial}$ is the translational reaction axial component
- $M$ is the momentum, rotational reaction
- $C$ is the possible position of the rotational center
# Equations of equilibrium
The [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Equations of equilibrium|equations of equilibrium]] allow us to understand if the supports are enough to be at equilibrium. The [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Free Body Diagram|free body diagram]] help us to view these equations in a practical way and to write the equations in order to find the reaction needed.
# Determinacy and stability
The application of the equation of equilibrium lead us to two fundamental concepts: [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Stable structure|stable structure]] and [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Determinate structure|determinate structure]]. Considering as t the number of the bodies in the structure, and as s the number of the supports we can obtain:
- $3t-s>0$: *unstable* structure
- $3t-s=0$: *stable*, as long as there are no [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Improper constraints|improper constraints]], and *determinate* structure
- $3t-s<0$: *stable*, as long as there are no [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Improper constraints|improper constraints]], and *indeterminate* structure

# Internal characteristics of solicitations
To represent the most common civil structures we can usually model them as composed with rectilinear elements. The axis line is a good approximation of these elements. The [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Cantilever beam|cantilever beam]] is a good example. 

Applying the [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Principle of sectioning|principle of sectioning]], we can derive the [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Internal characteristics of solicitations|internal characteristics of solicitations]], that is useful also to understand visually the load on different bodies or different body parts.


With the [[Structure Engineering/4. Main concepts/Principle of Virtual Works (PLV)|PLV]] is possible to resolve a [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Determinate structure|determinate structure]], knowing the supports reactions and the internal characteristic of solicitations.

[[Structure Engineering/4. Main concepts/Collapsible mechanism theorem|Collapsible mechanism theorem]]



