---
dg-publish: "false"
tags:
  - notdone
---
Statics studies the *equilibrium of bodies under applied load*, and determine the structure response. In order to be in the statics fields a body needs to be at equilibrium. 
A useful model for a body is the [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Rigid body|rigid body]], that suits well the study of the equilibrium conditions. 
The movement of a rigid body can be fully characterized by its translation plus the rotation around a center of rotation. These are its [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Degrees of freedom (structure)|degrees of freedom]].
In the hypothesis of *small displacements*, we can apply the *linearization of the rigidity constrains* for a circular trajectory. It means that circular trajectories are exchanged with the tangent rectilinear ones. 
Generalizing, we obtain the [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Euler theorem (structure)|Euler theorem]], that is useful to determinate the existence of a center of rotation, that for the [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Theory of Centers|theory of centers]] implies the absence of equilibrium.
In order to be at equilibrium, we need to saturate every degrees of freedom of the body, using a support. 
## Supports 

| Support                                           | s               | $R_{ort}$ | $R_{axial}$ | M   | C   |                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | --------- | ----------- | --- | --- | -------------------------------- |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Hinge - Pin   | Hinge - Pin]]   | 2         | ✅           | ✅   | ❌   | itself                           |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Roller        | Roller]]        | 1         | ❌           | ✅   | ❌   | every on its axis, also infinite |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Link          | Link]]          | 1         | ❌           | ✅   | ❌   | every on its axis, also infinite |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Slider        | Slider]]        | 2         | ❌           | ✅   | ✅   | infinite on its axis             |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Double slider | Double slider]] | 1         | ❌           | ❌   | ✅   | infinite on every axis           |
| [[Structure Engineering/2. Supports/Fixed support | Fixed support]] | 3         | ✅           | ✅   | ✅   | ❌                                |
where:
- s are the saturated degrees of freedom
- $R_{ort}$ is the translational reaction orthogonal component
- $R_{axial}$ is the translational reaction axial component
- $M$ is the momentum, rotational reaction
- $C$ is the possible position of the rotational center
# Equations of equilibrium
The [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Equations of equilibrium|equations of equilibrium]] allow us to understand if the supports are enough to be at equilibrium. The [[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Free Body Diagram|free body diagram]] help us to view these equations in a practical way and to write the equations in order to find the reaction needed.
# Determinacy and stability
[[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Determinate structure|determinate structure]]
[[Structure Engineering/3. Basic/Stable structure|stable structure]]


