---
dg-publish: "false"
tags:
  - notdone
---
Statics studies the *equilibrium of bodies under applied load*, and determine the structure response. In order to be in the statics fields a body needs to be at equilibrium. 
A useful model for a body is the [[Structure Engineering/Rigid body|rigid body]], that suits well the study of the equilibrium conditions. 
The movement of a rigid body can be fully characterized by its translation plus the rotation around a center of rotation. These are its [[Structure Engineering/Degrees of freedom (structure)|degrees of freedom]].
In the hypothesis of *small displacements*, we can apply the *linearization of the rigidity constrains* for a circular trajectory. It means that circular trajectories are exchanged with the tangent rectilinear ones. 
Generalizing, we obtain the [[Structure Engineering/Euler theorem (structure)|Euler theorem]], that is useful to determinate the existence of a center of rotation, that for the [[Structure Engineering/Theory of Centers|theory of centers]] implies the absence of equilibrium.
In order to be at equilibrium, we need to saturate every degrees of freedom of the body, using a support. 
## Supports 

| Support                                                     | s   | Rx  | Ry  | M   | C                                |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------- |
| [[Structure Engineering/Supports/Hinge - Pin\|Hinge - Pin]] | 2   | ✅   | ✅   | ❌   | itself                           |
| [[Structure Engineering/Supports/Roller\|Roller]]           | 1   | ❌   | ✅   | ❌   | every on its axis, also infinite |
| [[Link\|Link]]                                              | 1   | ❌   | ✅   | ❌   | every on its axis, also infinite |
| [[Slider\|Slider]]                                          | 2   | ❌   | ✅   | ✅   | infinite on its axis             |
| [[Double slider\|Double slider]]                            | 1   | ❌   | ❌   | ✅   | infinite on every axis           |
| [[Fixed support\|Fixed support]]                            | 3   | ✅   | ✅   | ✅   | ❌                                |
where:
- s are the saturated degrees of freedom
- $R_{x}$ is the translational reaction x component
- $R_{y}$ is the translational reaction y component
- $M$ is the momentum, rotational reaction
- $C$ is the possible position of the rotational center

The [[Equations of equilibrium|equations of equilibrium]] allow us to understand if the supports are enough to be at equilibrium. The [[Free Body Diagram|free body diagram]] help us to view these equations in a practical way, and to write the equations in order to find the reaction needed.
example 
[[Determinate structure|determinate structure]]

