---
dg-publish: 
tags:
  - maintopic
  - notdone
---
# Non isothermal system
If the problem is non-isothermal, in addition to the [[Advanced Transport Phenomena/Mass balance equation|mass]] and [[Advanced Transport Phenomena/Momentum balance equations|momentum balance equations]], we must also consider the [[Advanced Transport Phenomena/Energy balance equation|energy balance]].
In this way the system is defined by 5 equations in 5 unknowns ($\mathbf{u}$,p,T). The equations are *coupled* because the physical properties depend on temperature ($\rho$ and $\eta$).

We can make some assumptions without losing the generality of the discussion.
1. *Steady-state conditions*, so no time derivatives.
2. *Negligible viscous dissipation*, in energy balance $\boldsymbol{\sigma} \nabla \textbf{u}=0$
3. *No external forces*, F=0 in momentum balance.
4. *No generation/subtraction of heat in the fluid*, S=0 in energy balance.
5. Low [[Dimentionless numbers/Mach number|Mach number]] (Ma<0.3), $\rho$ depends only on T and not on P.
6. Low T gradient, so $\rho$ is constant and the deviatoric part of the [[Stress tensor|stress tensor]] expressed as a [[Basic concepts/Costitutive eq. for Newtornian fluids|Costitutive eq. for Newtornian fluids]] is zero.

Notice that the density is not really independent from P and T, but given that the two gradients are small enough these dependencies can be neglected, leading to a constant density.
With these assumptions, continuity and momentum balance equations reduce to the [[Advanced Transport Phenomena/Navier-Stokes equations|Navier-Stokes equations]], that are *decoupled* from the energy balance.

The system composed by the Navier-Stokes equations and the energy balance can be rendered dimensionless. This procedure results in the emergence of three adimensional numbers, namely the [[Dimentionless numbers/Reynolds number|Reynolds number]], the [[Dimentionless numbers/Prandl number|Prandl number]], and their product, known as the [[Dimentionless numbers/Peclet number|Peclet number]].

As all the systems, there is the need to specify some [[Basic concepts/Boundary conditions|boundary conditions]].

BC: temperature profile
BC: heat flux
BC: periodicity
BC: fluid-solid coupling
BC: thin-layer

Species transport

BC for species transport

BC: concentration profile
BC: diffusive flux
BC: periodicity
BC: fluid-solid interface
BC: thin-layer

